Dusted in an inch of pristine snow and with every railing, lattice, and fence strung with soft, twinkling lights, Historic Annapolis looked like a Christmas postcard, and in her present state of mind, it nearly drove her insane.
Kate Warren hung on the horn of her rental car as yet another Annapolitan serenely slid into the intersection in front of her with locked brakes, and then grabbed the wheel with both hands to swerve around the hapless driver. Two decades living in the Northeast had taught her how to drive in snow, but it only took an hour back in Maryland to remind her that people in her home state had not received the same lessons. She floored the accelerator, easily parrying the resulting skid, and quickly slid past the other car. Better keep that guy as far behind as possible where he couldn't get her into any more trouble.
That minor crisis averted, she grabbed the cigarette between her lips and puffed nervously, coughing just a little this time. The menthol taste was exquisite but felt forbidden, almost taboo. She'd bought the pack of Newports at a gas station not far from the airport. I can't believe I've become one of those people who smokes in a rental car, she thought idly as she pulled again on the cigarette, feeling her pulse slowing down in response. For that matter, she couldn't believe she'd gone back to cigarettes on a whim, a good two decades after quitting. No matter. With the way her life was going right now, a rental car cleaning fee was a small price to pay for a few moments of peace.
It'd been years since she'd been back home, but everything had been instantly familiar the moment she turned off Route 50 and onto Rowe Boulevard heading into town. Sure, there were a few cosmetic changes here and there, but Annapolis, particularly the historic downtown district, was not really a town where a lot of things changed very fast. She had traversed the large circle circumscribing St. Anne's Church, the clock face on its red brick steeple glowing warmly through the swirling snow, and then easily found the turnoff to Duke of Gloucester Street riding the spine of the ridge leading downhill to the Chesapeake Bay. It all looked so sickeningly familiar. There was that street corner where Tony Johnson, her middle school boyfriend, had kissed her the first time, his clumsy hands feverishly exploring down the front of her shirt. There was the supermarket her mother had favored, often taking her daughter--never her precious boys, oh no, never them--with her on countless mind-numbingly boring grocery shopping trips. And there was the place where she had witnessed her step-father Ray drive his truck straight into a concrete barrier when his brakes gave out, killing him instantly. She imagined she could still see the scratches on the pavement, even fifteen years later, maybe even a darkened spot where that huge pool of blood had seeped into the concrete. It was getting too dark to tell, but she wasn't that eager to find out for sure anyway. 
The flood of memories had almost made her want to vomit. Then again, a lot of things made her vomit these days.
Now she was slowing down as the intersection with Market Street came up, the big Nissan plowing through the thick slush like an Arctic research vessel through a field of ice floes. She turned right, the narrow street forcing her to slow down even more. The big car hummed quietly in between the rows of wooden Colonial houses, warm golden light filtering through the snowflakes and spilling out onto the snow-covered cobbles. The road crew hadn't made it to Market Street yet, so there was no slush here and only a few tire marks in the thickening snow. With more nasty weather on the way throughout the night, this was an evening most Annapolitans seemed to prefer spending at home.
Her phone chirped, and she glanced at it, seeing its screen light up. A text from Chris. He was probably at La Guardia now, getting ready to fly down here. Unless there were more delays, of course. She'd call him back as soon as she pulled up in front of the house. Not far now.
Glancing at the phone reminded her that she had two voice mails waiting as well. One each from Matt and Jake, those two precious boys, no doubt offering some lame excuse why they weren't here yet, and wouldn't be for days to come. Always trusting big sister Kate to be the responsible one. She snorted in derision.
The car crested the little ridge, and then the street sloped sharply down towards Spa Creek, a black void at the end of the street behind a meager railing. This part of the street had some of the more spectacular old houses in the district, all of them tall and rickety wooden structures overlooking the chill waters of Annapolis's natural harbor.
She took a deep breath and braked to a halt, steeling herself as another wave of memories crashed home. Vertigo grabbed an icy hold of her gut, and for a crazy moment, she considered flooring the accelerator and speeding down, down, down the narrow street. The big Nissan would punch through the railing at the bottom like a bowling ball through matchsticks, and then she'd be sinking into that dark, icy wetness. Maybe no one would even notice, a night like this?
Instead, she carefully let up the brake and crawled down the street. It was running on the bottom of a natural gully sloping down the hill, with the houses on either side perched high on the gully's sides. This afforded each house a magnificent view of the harbor, but left no room for driveways, so people parked their cars on the curb in front of their house. She guessed people in Colonial times had had little use of cars.
At this time of night, the whole street was filled with parked cars, and her heart sank as she realized she would have to drive back up the hill and find a free spot far away from the house. The prospect of walking just a few hundred yards on uneven Annapolis cobbles in wintry darkness in her condition was decidedly unpleasant.
Then she saw that there was a big gap right in front of the house, as if a protective force field was projecting from the house itself, and realized that it shouldn't have surprised her. She remembered that it had been the same when she had been living at home. It was almost like the gap that schooling fish leave around a reef shark--after a few years, all the neighbors along the south end of Market Street had known to steer clear of the angry old widow in the purple house.
Protective force field or not, it was a welcome sight at this hour, and she easily parallel parked the car with plenty of space left for Chris's rental, whenever he would show up. Then she dragged a last time on her cigarette and half-heartedly blew smoke out the cracked window before closing it, turning off the ignition, and getting out of the car. 
Her first thought was how silent it was with the car's engine and radio off. Her second was that it was cold, much colder than mere temperature had suggested. With one hand, she dragged her thick parka closed against the damp chill of the Chesapeake stealing into her bones, and with the other, she waved the remnants of the smoke out of the car and dropped the butt of the cigarette in the gutter.
And froze.
An elderly lady, diminutive but ramrod-straight figure embalmed in a downy parka that made her look twice her actual size, was staring at Kate from the curb. A terrier, fur the color of midnight and encased in a coat of the same color and cut as his owner, was straining at his leash and looking back questioningly over his shoulder at his owner, who must have stopped dead in her tracks. The yellow light shining down from the tired old lamppost above was feeble, but enough to reveal the old woman's horrified and disgusted look framed by the furlined hood. 
Kate hurriedly took a step back into the shelter of the car, trying to shield her belly. At close to seven months, it was a mostly futile gesture, and she knew it.
"Smoking is bad for the baby, you know, young lady," the old lady said primly in a reedy voice that cut through the night unpleasantly. "And it's bad for you, too."
"I know, thank you," Kate said, feeling her cheeks start to burn like a school girl's, and hating herself for it even if it was too dark for anyone to see it. "It was my friend's cigarette, not mine," she continued lamely.
"Hmmpf," the old lady said, putting her nose up. "Come on, Skippy, time to go."
The terrier yapped eagerly in agreement, and then continued to pull his owner up the hill. As the deadened footsteps faded away, Kate sighed in relief and leaned against the car, feeling the blush fading as her pulse stabilized again. Intruding old bitch, she thought with heat that surprised herself. You should mind your own business. That made her feel a little better.
On the plus side, she wasn't cold anymore. She took a moment to steady her breathing, then glanced up at the house above her. As always, it loomed above her, a rickety wooden colossus of two stories and with a pointy tower rising another level. Perched on the ridge lining Market Street, it looked like a gangly giant leaning over to grab her.
She shivered involuntarily, feeling another wave of memories rising up in her gorge, and instead fished her phone out of her pocket to stave off the onslaught.
Chris's text was written in his usual clipped and businesslike language. "At gate. Takeoff in thirty, weather willing. Arrive Annapolis 10pm. Call if U can."
She tapped the call button and waited as she was connected, leaning against the car with snow falling peacefully all around her. The memory of the condemning old lady was fading just as quickly as her footsteps were being carefully concealed by big woolly flakes.
"Hey you," Chris said. He sounded tired. "You there yet?"
"Hey hon," she said. "Yep. Just got here. It's snowing here too, maybe even worse than in New York."
"How's the baby?" he said. "And you? How are you feeling?"
"Good," she lied. "Tired. The baby is fine, too. She says hi."
He actually laughed at that. "Hey baby, daddy's on the way. Stay put and take care of mommy."
She smiled, knowing he couldn't see it. "Speaking of which, flight's still on for seven?"
"Yes, they're getting ready to board us now, so it's looking pretty promising this time around."
She nodded, grunted approvingly. "So what about you, honey? You okay? You sound a little tired."
"The flight from Paris was a bitch," he admitted. "This return trip was not exactly planned to the nines."
"And the partners? How are they taking this, on top of everything else?" She couldn't quite erase the uncertainty from her own voice, and hated herself for it. Top grades all through school, double Ivy league degrees, and now the youngest partner in history at Cumberland and McDonough, a top Manhattan law firm, and a woman to boot, but she still felt like she was being sent to the principal's office whenever the partners--the other partners, which included Chris--were discussed.
"'Everything else', what's that supposed to mean?" he said sharply with that annoying lawyerly way he had.
She grunted. She guessed she had the same lawyerly way herself. "You know what," she said, and cupped her free hand around her belly. Announcing her pregnancy at the partner's meeting last month--in fact, her first partner's meeting, period--had been something of a bomb shell, at least in her own mind, and she was sure they were all talking about her behind her back.
"Yes, I guess I do know," he said, softening. "They understand, of course they understand."
"I bet that old gargoyle McDonough has had plenty to say about it," she said darkly. Chris had told her Melvin McDonough, one of the original founders of the firm, had been her most vocal opponent when the issue of her promotion had been discussed. She was sure it was because she was a woman. "How he thought I was way past having babies, and how I'd turn into the mothering type, and all that crap."
He chuckled. "I bet, but not to my face. Don't worry about it, there's nothing he can do to you now."
"I guess not," she muttered and stamped her feet. She was getting cold again.
"Wait, are you still outside in the snow?" he said in mock outrage. "Let me guess, you're stalling from going into the house, so instead you're standing out there in the cold talking to me about law firm politics."
She snorted humorlessly. "Guilty as charged, counselor."
He chuckled, and then suddenly grew serious. "Listen, I know this must be hard," he said. "Why don't you just find a coffee shop that's open late, or some cozy restaurant, and just hang out until I get there?" His voice brightened as he got another idea. "Or why not just take into a hotel, we deal with this in the morning? No way we want to stay in that spooky old house tonight anyway, am I right?"
She huffed. "I spent fifteen years of my life in that spooky old house, you know. It's just a house. In fact, it's my house now. Mine and Jake's and Matt's house, that is," she corrected herself primly.
He sighed audibly. "Fine," he said, sounding defeated. She knew that he had never liked her family's old house on Market Street; in fact, had never much liked her family at all. Except her brothers, who were both likable enough, even if she privately felt they were pretty forgettable as well. "I'll see you around ten. Hey, I gotta go, looks like they're starting to board now. Love you."
"Love you," she responded automatically, and then felt a twinge of unease as he hung up. She let the phone fall from her ear as she turned over the phrase in her head, absently staring at the screen glowing like a precious jewel in the dim night.
Together for twelve years, and married for ten, all loving and stable throughout that whole time. Now since being hit with a surprise pregnancy only seven months ago, a lot of things she had been taking for granted were starting to no longer be true. Like her love for Chris. 
Why was she feeling this way? Wasn't pregnant couples supposed to grow stronger in their relationship, not weaker? And who would ever consider divorcing her husband of ten years, as a little voice kept whispering to her late at night, just when they finally had managed to conceive after all the medical options had failed?
My mother, she thought bitterly, that's who. Her mother, who had forced a divorce on her poor father when she was six months pregnant with Kate herself. Her father, who had died, certainly of a fatal fall from a ladder, and perhaps of grief from being estranged from his daughter only a month before she was born.
Actually, it wasn't that she didn't love Chris anymore. She did, she loved him dearly in that familiar and comfortable way that established couples do, where most of the thrill has worn away but what remains is a deep friendship and a fundamental understanding for each other. It was more of an impending feeling of doom that had been growing on her, like that little voice that kept telling her that she couldn't stay with him, that it somehow--impossibly--wouldn't be safe. As if he and the baby wouldn't be good together, even if she knew perfectly well that Chris would make a wonderful father. She couldn't quite put her feelings into words, but she felt it at the core of her being so strongly that she surreptitiously had started to look up divorce attorneys.
Enough. She shook her head. Chris was right, she was stalling. This was a problem for another day. With an effort, she lifted her gaze from her phone screen, now beaded with little droplets of melting snow, to look at the dark house looming over her beyond a veil of swirling flurries. With its dark windows and gap-toothed front porch, it felt like it was leering at her.
The problem at hand was her mom, she reminded herself. Her mom, who was now dead. And it was time to take care of the mess she had left behind.
#
"Hi mom," she had said lamely when her mother had answered on the second ring.
That had only been a week ago, and her mother had sounded her usual cold and detached self. Kate knew her mother didn't have a cellphone, and had been anticipating a long wait until the older woman had made it to her rotary phone in the parlor. Clearly she had either been sitting by the old Bakelite monstrosity, or had had no difficulties getting to it quickly.
"Well, well," the crisp voice, with just a hint of an old-person quake, came back through Kate's phone. "If it isn't the long-lost daughter. Hello, dear, nice of you to take some time out of your important life to talk to your old mother."