Just one more run, Richard Barnaby said to himself as he crested the last ridge, the big ski lodge and lift complex at the bottom of the slope looming out of the mist. He was cold and his legs were burning, but this was his last day in Valle d'Aosta and he was damned if he wasn't going to get the most out of it. He slid to a stop and turned around to look back upslope, plastering a big smile on his face that he hoped was not too obviously fake. He was pretty sure he knew how this was going to go.
Christa was far behind, of course, and she was taking her sweet time, as usual. He suppressed an exasperated sigh and leaned on his poles instead, his smile becoming even more strained.
"Looking good, hun," he remarked with forced joviality as she finally slid to a stop next to him, a sulky look on her face. "What do you say, one more run? Last chance!"
Christa wasn't having any of it. "I'm cold, honey," she said in that almost-whiny voice he had come to resent, her grimace turning into a full-blown pout. "I want to go back to the hotel." 
"Aww, come on," he smiled, jabbing lightly at her with an elbow. 

She pushed him away and scowled. "I said I'm cold," she countered. "Besides, didn't you tell me that you aren't supposed to call your last run?"
He chuckled, his smile finally becoming genuine. "You got me there. So two more runs, and skip the last?"
Not even a smile in response. "You go if you really have to," she said petulantly. "I'll be at the bar."
I already knew that, he thought to himself but didn't say. Instead he shrugged and smiled again. "Fine, but it'd be a lot more fun if you came too."
She had already turned her back and was poling away in the direction of the lodge and the glowing lights of the village beyond. "Remember, the live music starts at seven," she called over her shoulder. "I'll save you a space at the bar."
He sighed in resignation, looking at her retreating back for a moment, and then turned deftly on his skis and took off in the direction of the lift. It was getting late, he realized, almost five o'clock and closing time. The sun had plunged below the horizon and the slopes were already darkening visibly, the light snow mist filling the frigid air on a thousand hissing feet. He would have to hurry if he was going to catch the last gondola up the mountain. The crowd had thinned out, and the resort crew were bustling around in the half-light with their closing chores. Maybe he was already too late?
But when he rounded the corner of the lift complex, the huge wheel humming contentedly in the gloom inside the massive metal housing, he was gratified to see a small group of people unhurriedly poling ahead of him towards the lift entrance. Not too late then. He caught up to them, two men and a woman, and slid in behind. The line was deserted, with no lift crew in sight, and his heart sank again. Maybe they had closed down the lift after all? It was still running, but they may just be ferrying the last skiers up the slope.
But then the woman in the lead, clad in a bright white ski suit, reached the turnstile and went through with no trouble at all. Not locked then. Richard smiled in satisfaction, filing in through the turnstile after the two men. He would get a last run after all! Or, he corrected himself, two more runs, but he'd skip the second. He stepped out of his skis and lined up with the little group as they trod up the entrance ramp. The woman in white was just in front of him, and he couldn't resist sneaking a glance at her figure as he stepped up behind her. She was young and slim, and her tight snowsuit left little to the imagination. 
The next gondola arrived, automatically slowing down in front of the ramp with its door already open to let them in. Weird, Richard thought to himself. Normally there's someone here to make sure you get on all right. He mentally shrugged. It was the end of the day, after all, and the temperature was dropping rapidly. He guessed he couldn't blame the staff for getting indoors to warm up. Besides, the lift was all automated. He was next in line to get aboard, so he shuffled up to the gap as the woman in white stepped in. That meant he saw her drop her pole almost before it happened, so he was able to reach out and catch it before it slipped between the gondola car and the ramp.
"Sorry, miss," he said, stepping into the gondola behind her and lightly putting a hand on her shoulder. "You dropped one of your ski poles."
"Oh," she exclaimed, turning around so abruptly that he almost dropped the pole he was proffering to her. Then she raised her gaze, and he almost dropped it again. Her face was heart-shaped and lovely, pale but framed by dark locks and with flushed cheeks the very picture of health. Still, it was her arrestingly large eyes that instantly captured his attention. They looked almost purple in the ruddy glow of the gondola's interior. "Thank you so much, sir." Her English was heavily but charmingly accented. Russian, maybe?
The door of the gondola sighed shut behind him, and the car jerked gently as it started to gain speed. "It almost fell under the platform," he stammered, brandishing the pole and feeling the color in his face rise. Blushing? He hadn't blushed since high school three decades ago! He hoped it wouldn't be visible in the cabin's dim light. 
She took it, smiling sweetly at him, and he felt his heart skip a beat. That smile was not very innocent at all, he realized, almost like she was laughing at him behind it. "Very kind," she said. She turned away to find a seat, and his heart sank at the loss.
He mentally shook himself and turned around to find his own seat. The gondola car was made for eight people, so with only four of them, there was plenty of space. Richard leaned his skis on the bright red wall next to the glass window, absently brushing snow off the bindings as he covertly looked over the other passengers. The woman was ignoring him, half turned away and gazing behind her towards the rapidly receding valley floor with her dark curls silhouetted against the glow of the village below. The two men were seated across from him, their heads together and engaged in deep conversation. One was tall and powerfully built, clad in a bright orange ski suit, and with a heavy beard rimed with frost. The other one was thin and short with a black jacket and white snow pants and a jaunty yellow beanie perched on his head. The latter man noticed Richard's attention, and as he turned his face to nod in recognition, Richard saw that he had Asian features. Richard nodded back and then averted his gaze, uncomfortable at getting caught ogling his co-passengers.
Out of the corner of his eye he saw the bearded man pull out a large black object from his breast pocket and show it to his partner. What was that? It almost looked like one of those new mobile phones that fit into your pocket, and he suddenly felt consumed by curiosity but unable to look back at the pair. He had already been caught staring once and he didn't feel particularly inclined to be caught again. But a mobile phone, here, in the Italian Alps? The bearded man said something and slipped the large object back into his breast pocket, and Richard quickly lost interest and directed his attention to the scenery gliding by beneath the gondola as it steadily ascended the mountain.
The snow was picking up, he noticed, just on schedule. The weather report in the hotel's lobby that morning had warned about an impending storm that would start to make itself known in the evening. Ten inches of snow was scheduled to fall overnight, maybe more, and Richard felt the first stirring of unease as he gazed out at the intensifying snowfall. He was a strong skier, but it was late, he was tired, and the darkness combined with the snow would make getting down the slope quite a challenge. Were the slopes even going to be passable with all this new snow? But then he spotted two cones of bright light cutting through the mist far below him. Good. A snow grooming machine was puffing its way down the mountain, so the resort crew were still working on getting the slopes ready for the next day. That hopefully meant he should be okay getting down on his own.
He lost himself to daydreaming for a while, the relative warmth and gentle rocking of the gondola having an oddly soothing effect on his tired body and mind. It was perhaps ten minutes later when the woman in white said something loudly in Italian that he looked up with a start. Her voice was clearly worried and she was looking out the window. She had spoken in Italian, so maybe she wasn't Russian after all?
She looked back at Richard, quickly meeting his gaze, and then at the other two men, who both looked back in confusion. "Why are we stopping, please?" she said in her accented English, clearly having repeated her initial statement when no one answered in kind.
She was right, he realized. The subtle hum of the cable car had changed, shifting down from a pleasant whine at the edge of hearing to a more low-pitched rumble. As he watched, a lift pylon materialized out of the gloom and then passed by the gondola's window. The lift was definitely slowing down.
"You're right," he said automatically, twisting to look out the window at the receding pylon, a claw of metal half already obscured by swirling clouds of snow. Visibility was down to fifty feet, he realized, and the rising storm was buffeting the car and whistling subtly through the worn rubber gasket around the accordion doors. As he moved away from the chill draft and watched, the car slowed further and came to a stop, rocking gently. All sound died away save for the quiet whine of the gathering wind. And then the light dome in the middle of the ceiling abruptly clicked off, plunging the cabin into the curious silvery darkness of a snowy midwinter night. Now the car was lit only by the harsh cold light of a fluorescent light fixture mounted on the nearby lift pylon, long shadows stretching across the cabin floor.
The bearded man cursed loudly in German. He was on his feet and thumped rapidly over to the door next to Richard to look out with his heavy ski boots, his rapid movement setting the gondola swinging from side to side. Richard felt his stomach lurch and instinctively grabbed the metal railing as he fell back into his seat. "Scheiße, they can't turn it off, we're still on the lift!" the man yelled to no one in particular, this time in clipped English.
His Asian partner was still seated, turning a mild face on the bearded man straining to look out the window into the thick swirls of snow. "Calm down, Uwe, this is just a misunderstanding," he said calmly in perfect English. "Have a seat and let's just wait until they turn the lift back on."
Richard nodded, but felt his heart racing. The man's abrupt charge at the door had been unexpected and terrifying. "Yes, sit down, please," he said. "There's nothing to be gained by panicking. I'm sure the lift will get going again in a minute."
Uwe turned to glare down at him in the half-light, white teeth gritted in his dark beard. "I'm not panicking, mein Herr," he said, but Richard thought he heard a quaver in the gruff voice. "Don't tell me what to do."
Richard swallowed, feeling the heat of the man's glare and the weight of his sheer physical presence. The gondola car was listing to one side because of the weight imbalance, and he felt himself idly wondering about the tensile strength of the cabin's steel frame in subzero temperatures. Surely it must have been built for precisely this kind of thing?
"Sure," he said meekly, inadvertently leaning back in his seat. "Just take it easy. I didn't mean anything by it."
"Take it easy?" the big man replied, the white grin turning decidedly feral. "Scheiße, I'm taking it easy. You don't want to see me not take it easy."
Richard swallowed again, desperately wondering how he had gotten himself into hot water so quickly. He wasn't sure what to say to de-escalate the situation, but then a gentle voice broke in from just behind the big German. "Sir, please," said the woman in white. She was standing very close, and when the man whirled around to face her, she placed her hand lightly on his chest inside his unzipped ski jacket. Despite the gloom in the cabin, Richard had a perfect view of the man's face relaxing almost instantly. Richard glanced at the girl—no, young woman, he corrected himself—and felt a stab of jealousy in his chest. Her big dark eyes were focused on the man as if he was the only other person in the world and her slender hand with its long and delicate fingers was very white in the gray light of the cabin, seeming almost to caress the man's chest.
"I'm frightened, sir," she said, her eyes turning pleading as she gazed up at the big man. Something about that look scratched at Richard's subconscious, and again he had the feeling that she was—laughing? surely not?—on the inside. "Will you sit with me?"
Russian for sure, Richard thought to himself as he observed the two, feeling his own heart calm down in his chest. That impromptu confrontation with the big German had left him rattled. The woman did sound scared, but Richard wasn't sure she was really acting the part. Why did he get the distinct impression that this was just an act? Was she merely playing the damsel in distress card to defuse the situation?
As if in response to this thought, she glanced his way briefly, and he was struck speechless by the intense look in her dark purple eyes. She wasn't just beautiful, she was radiant in the muted silver darkness, the swirling snow outside giving the fluorescent light the illusion of dappled waves rippling across her face. High Slavic cheekbones, satin skin, and a too-sharp chin gave her an almost feline appearance. And those eyes. She didn't smile, but there was something… hungry in them. Then she looked back at Uwe the German, and he could breathe again. 
Uwe wasn't noticing any of this. He stammered, deflating somewhat and turning beet red under the black beard. "Natürlich, natürlich, fräulein," he muttered, all the bravado gone in an instant. His hand rose to almost grasp hers, and then he seemed to think better of it and let it fall. "Entschuldigung… Of course I will sit with you."
Without hesitation, her hand did come down to clasp his, and she resolutely turned and guided him back to her seat, towing the man behind her like she was bringing a new partner to the dance floor. They sat down, and Richard noted that the woman snuggled up next to the man and placed a hand lightly on his big leg, as if in reassurance. The man turned big worshipful eyes on her to watch her every move.
The Asian man looked bemused, staring at his partner with a slight smile playing on his lips. "That's very well, Uwe," he said, casting a sharp glance at Richard in the half light. "If you're done comforting the young miss, perhaps you can help do something about this situation we find ourselves in?"
"Irina," she said. "The young miss is called Irina," she repeated and smiled sweetly across the cabin at the older man. Richard knew he would do anything to have her smile like that at him again, and then he mentally shook himself. What was he thinking? He was a married man in his fifties, he had no business going around acting like a flustered school boy around a young woman, no matter how beautiful!
The Asian man smiled mildly in response. He did not look overly impressed at being the center of Irina's attention. "Miss Irina, then," he said. "I am Mr. Lee. This is Uwe Schmidt."
"Guten tag," said Uwe and smiled vacuously.
"Richard Barnaby," said Richard automatically, nodding at his companions. 
"Excuse me very much, Richard," said Uwe, looking almost apologetic. "I can get… excited, sometimes."
Richard shrugged. "It's all right," he said. "It's a stressful situation." He glanced around meaningfully. "Hopefully the lift will get going again and this will just be another story we tell our friends and family when we get off this mountain."
Mr. Lee nodded sagely. "It's been five minutes and we still have not started moving again," he said. "It could just be a minor problem and they will get it going again. But, if we are being realistic, it could also mean they didn't notice us getting on and they are shutting down for the night. With this weather, there's little chance anyone will spot us up here. Which means this lift will not start up again until the morning."
"It's going to get cold," Richard said, instinctively huddling in his seat. "If I read that weather report correctly, it'll get too cold, in fact."
"Too cold," agreed Mr. Lee calmly. "Too cold to stay here."
"Njet," Irina protested. "What you mean, too cold?"
Mr. Lee thumped the metal siding of the gondola car. There was a hollow sound in response. "See? No heating, no insulation," he said in a voice as if he was discussing the weather. "It will get too cold to stay here overnight. We will freeze to death long before the morning."
Richard swallowed. He was only wearing a thin ski jacket with two layers beneath it. He was already cold, and knew he wasn't dressed for spending the night outdoors in a blizzard. "The lift could still start back up."
Mr. Lee smiled sadly, clearly unconvinced. "True, it could, but I don't like our chances, " he said, turning to Uwe. "Which is why I want Uwe to improve them."
Uwe looked up, clearly startled. "Was, mich?" he asked in confusion. "What can I do?"
Mr. Lee smiled mildly again and pointed at Uwe. "Your Nokia," he said. "The mobile phone, right there in your pocket."
The phone! Richard thought jubilantly. They could just call down to the lodge to get someone to restart the lift. They were saved!

To be continued ...
