Dusted in an inch of pristine snow and with every railing, lattice, and fence strung with soft, twinkling lights, Historic Annapolis looked like a Christmas postcard, and in her present state of mind, it nearly drove her insane.
Kate Warren hung on the horn of her rental car as yet another Annapolitan serenely slid into the intersection in front of her with locked brakes, and then grabbed the wheel with both hands to swerve around the hapless driver. Two decades living in the Northeast had taught her how to drive in snow, but it only took an hour back in Maryland to remind her that people in her home state had not received the same lessons. She floored the accelerator, easily parrying the resulting skid, and quickly slid past the other car. Better keep that guy as far behind as possible where he couldn't get her into any more trouble.
That minor crisis averted, she grabbed the cigarette between her lips and puffed nervously, coughing just a little this time. The menthol taste was exquisite but felt forbidden, almost taboo. She'd bought the pack of Newports at a gas station not far from the airport. I can't believe I've become one of those people who smokes in a rental car, she thought idly as she pulled again on the cigarette, feeling her pulse slowing down in response. For that matter, she couldn't believe she'd gone back to cigarettes on a whim, a good two decades after quitting. No matter. With the way her life was going right now, a rental car cleaning fee was a small price to pay for a few moments of peace.
It'd been years since she'd been back home, but everything had been instantly familiar the moment she turned off Route 50 and onto Rowe Boulevard heading into town. Sure, there were a few cosmetic changes here and there, but Annapolis, particularly the historic downtown district, was not really a town where a lot of things changed very fast. She had traversed the large circle circumscribing St. Anne's Church, the clock face on its red brick steeple glowing warmly through the swirling snow, and then easily found the turnoff to Duke of Gloucester Street riding the spine of the ridge leading downhill to the Chesapeake Bay. It all looked so sickeningly familiar. There was that street corner where Tony Johnson, her middle school boyfriend, had kissed her the first time, his clumsy hands feverishly exploring down the front of her shirt. There was the supermarket her mother had favored, often taking her daughter--never her precious boys, oh no, never them--with her on countless mind-numbingly boring grocery shopping trips. And there was the place where she had witnessed her step-father Ray drive his truck straight into a concrete barrier when his brakes gave out, killing him instantly. She imagined she could still see the scratches on the pavement, even fifteen years later, maybe even a darkened spot where that huge pool of blood had seeped into the concrete. It was getting too dark to tell, but she wasn't that eager to find out for sure anyway. 
The flood of memories had almost made her want to vomit. Then again, a lot of things made her vomit these days.
Now she was slowing down as the intersection with Market Street came up, the big Nissan plowing through the thick slush like an Arctic research vessel through a field of ice floes. She turned right, the narrow street forcing her to slow down even more. The big car hummed quietly in between the rows of wooden Colonial houses, warm golden light filtering through the snowflakes and spilling out onto the snow-covered cobbles. The road crew hadn't made it to Market Street yet, so there was no slush here and only a few tire marks in the thickening snow. With more nasty weather on the way throughout the night, this was an evening most Annapolitans seemed to prefer spending at home.
Her phone chirped, and she glanced at it, seeing its screen light up. A text from Chris. He was probably at La Guardia now, getting ready to fly down here. Unless there were more delays, of course. She'd call him back as soon as she pulled up in front of the house. Not far now.
Glancing at the phone reminded her that she had two voice mails waiting as well. One each from Matt and Jake, those two precious boys, no doubt offering some lame excuse why they weren't here yet, and wouldn't be for days to come. Always trusting big sister Kate to be the responsible one. She snorted in derision.
The car crested the little ridge, and then the street sloped sharply down towards Spa Creek, a black void at the end of the street behind a meager railing. This part of the street had some of the more spectacular old houses in the district, all of them tall and rickety wooden structures overlooking the chill waters of Annapolis's natural harbor.
She took a deep breath and braked to a halt, steeling herself as another wave of memories crashed home. Vertigo grabbed an icy hold of her gut, and for a crazy moment, she considered flooring the accelerator and speeding down, down, down the narrow street. The big Nissan would punch through the railing at the bottom like a bowling ball through matchsticks, and then she'd be sinking into that dark, icy wetness. Maybe no one would even notice, a night like this?
Instead, she carefully let up the brake and crawled down the street. It was running on the bottom of a natural gully sloping down the hill, with the houses on either side perched high on the gully's sides. This afforded each house a magnificent view of the harbor, but left no room for driveways, so people parked their cars on the curb in front of their house. She guessed people in Colonial times had had little use of cars.
At this time of night, the whole street was filled with parked cars, and her heart sank as she realized she would have to drive back up the hill and find a free spot far away from the house. The prospect of walking just a few hundred yards on uneven Annapolis cobbles in wintry darkness in her condition was decidedly unpleasant.
Then she saw that there was a big gap right in front of the house, as if a protective force field was projecting from the house itself, and realized that it shouldn't have surprised her. She remembered that it had been the same when she had been living at home. It was almost like the gap that schooling fish leave around a reef shark--after a few years, all the neighbors along the south end of Market Street had known to steer clear of the angry old widow in the purple house.
Protective force field or not, it was a welcome sight at this hour, and she easily parallel parked the car with plenty of space left for Chris's rental, whenever he would show up. Then she dragged a last time on her cigarette and half-heartedly blew smoke out the cracked window before closing it, turning off the ignition, and getting out of the car. 
Her first thought was how silent it was with the car's engine and radio off. Her second was that it was cold, much colder than mere temperature had suggested. With one hand, she dragged her thick parka closed against the damp chill of the Chesapeake stealing into her bones, and with the other, she waved the remnants of the smoke out of the car and dropped the butt of the cigarette in the gutter.
And froze.
An elderly lady, diminutive but ramrod-straight figure embalmed in a downy parka that made her look twice her actual size, was staring at Kate from the curb. A terrier, fur the color of midnight and encased in a coat of the same color and cut as his owner, was straining at his leash and looking back questioningly over his shoulder at his owner, who must have stopped dead in her tracks. The yellow light shining down from the tired old lamppost above was feeble, but enough to reveal the old woman's horrified and disgusted look framed by the furlined hood. 
Kate hurriedly took a step back into the shelter of the car, trying to shield her belly. At close to seven months, it was a mostly futile gesture, and she knew it.
"Smoking is bad for the baby, you know, young lady," the old lady said primly in a reedy voice that cut through the night unpleasantly. "And it's bad for you, too."
"I know, thank you," Kate said, feeling her cheeks start to burn like a school girl's, and hating herself for it even if it was too dark for anyone to see it. "It was my friend's cigarette, not mine," she continued lamely.
"Hmmpf," the old lady said, putting her nose up. "Come on, Skippy, time to go."
The terrier yapped eagerly in agreement, and then continued to pull his owner up the hill. As the deadened footsteps faded away, Kate sighed in relief and leaned against the car, feeling the blush fading as her pulse stabilized again. Intruding old bitch, she thought with heat that surprised herself. You should mind your own business. That made her feel a little better.
On the plus side, she wasn't cold anymore. She took a moment to steady her breathing, then glanced up at the house above her. As always, it loomed above her, a rickety wooden colossus of two stories and with a pointy tower rising another level. Perched on the ridge lining Market Street, it looked like a gangly giant leaning over to grab her.
She shivered involuntarily, feeling another wave of memories rising up in her gorge, and instead fished her phone out of her pocket to stave off the onslaught.
Chris's text was written in his usual clipped and businesslike language. "At gate. Takeoff in thirty, weather willing. Arrive Annapolis 10pm. Call if U can."
She tapped the call button and waited as she was connected, leaning against the car with snow falling peacefully all around her. The memory of the condemning old lady was fading just as quickly as her footsteps were being carefully concealed by big woolly flakes.
"Hey you," Chris said. He sounded tired. "You there yet?"
"Hey hon," she said. "Yep. Just got here. It's snowing here too, maybe even worse than in New York."
"How's the baby?" he said. "And you? How are you feeling?"
"Good," she lied. "Tired. The baby is fine, too. She says hi."
He actually laughed at that. "Hey baby, daddy's on the way. Stay put and take care of mommy."
She smiled, knowing he couldn't see it. "Speaking of which, flight's still on for seven?"
"Yes, they're getting ready to board us now, so it's looking pretty promising this time around."
She nodded, grunted approvingly. "So what about you, honey? You okay? You sound a little tired."
"The flight from Paris was a bitch," he admitted. "This return trip was not exactly planned to the nines."
"And the partners? How are they taking this, on top of everything else?" She couldn't quite erase the uncertainty from her own voice, and hated herself for it. Top grades all through school, double Ivy league degrees, and now the youngest partner in history at Cumberland and McDonough, a top Manhattan law firm, and a woman to boot, but she still felt like she was being sent to the principal's office whenever the partners--the other partners, which included Chris--were discussed.
"'Everything else', what's that supposed to mean?" he said sharply with that annoying lawyerly way he had.
She grunted. She guessed she had the same lawyerly way herself. "You know what," she said, and cupped her free hand around her belly. Announcing her pregnancy at the partner's meeting last month--in fact, her first partner's meeting, period--had been something of a bomb shell, at least in her own mind, and she was sure they were all talking about her behind her back.
"Yes, I guess I do know," he said, softening. "They understand, of course they understand."
"I bet that old gargoyle McDonough has had plenty to say about it," she said darkly. Chris had told her Melvin McDonough, one of the original founders of the firm, had been her most vocal opponent when the issue of her promotion had been discussed. She was sure it was because she was a woman. "How he thought I was way past having babies, and how I'd turn into the mothering type, and all that crap."
He chuckled. "I bet, but not to my face. Don't worry about it, there's nothing he can do to you now."
"I guess not," she muttered and stamped her feet. She was getting cold again.
"Wait, are you still outside in the snow?" he said in mock outrage. "Let me guess, you're stalling from going into the house, so instead you're standing out there in the cold talking to me about law firm politics."
She snorted humorlessly. "Guilty as charged, counselor."
He chuckled, and then suddenly grew serious. "Listen, I know this must be hard," he said. "Why don't you just find a coffee shop that's open late, or some cozy restaurant, and just hang out until I get there?" His voice brightened as he got another idea. "Or why not just take into a hotel, we deal with this in the morning? No way we want to stay in that spooky old house tonight anyway, am I right?"
She huffed. "I spent fifteen years of my life in that spooky old house, you know. It's just a house. In fact, it's my house now. Mine and Jake's and Matt's house, that is," she corrected herself primly.
He sighed audibly. "Fine," he said, sounding defeated. She knew that he had never liked her family's old house on Market Street; in fact, had never much liked her family at all. Except her brothers, who were both likable enough, even if she privately felt they were pretty forgettable as well. "I'll see you around ten. Hey, I gotta go, looks like they're starting to board now. Love you."
"Love you," she responded automatically, and then felt a twinge of unease as he hung up. She let the phone fall from her ear as she turned over the phrase in her head, absently staring at the screen glowing like a precious jewel in the dim night.
Together for twelve years, and married for ten, all loving and stable throughout that whole time. Now since being hit with a surprise pregnancy only seven months ago, a lot of things she had been taking for granted were starting to no longer be true. Like her love for Chris. 
Why was she feeling this way? Wasn't pregnant couples supposed to grow stronger in their relationship, not weaker? And who would ever consider divorcing her husband of ten years, as a little voice kept whispering to her late at night, just when they finally had managed to conceive after all the medical options had failed?
My mother, she thought bitterly, that's who. Her mother, who had forced a divorce on her poor father when she was six months pregnant with Kate herself. Her father, who had died, certainly of a fatal fall from a ladder, and perhaps of grief from being estranged from his daughter only a month before she was born.
Actually, it wasn't that she didn't love Chris anymore. She did, she loved him dearly in that familiar and comfortable way that established couples do, where most of the thrill has worn away but what remains is a deep friendship and a fundamental understanding for each other. It was more of an impending feeling of doom that had been growing on her, like that little voice that kept telling her that she couldn't stay with him, that it somehow--impossibly--wouldn't be safe. As if he and the baby wouldn't be good together, even if she knew perfectly well that Chris would make a wonderful father. She couldn't quite put her feelings into words, but she felt it at the core of her being so strongly that she surreptitiously had started to look up divorce attorneys.
Enough. She shook her head. Chris was right, she was stalling. This was a problem for another day. With an effort, she lifted her gaze from her phone screen, now beaded with little droplets of melting snow, to look at the dark house looming over her beyond a veil of swirling flurries. With its dark windows and gap-toothed front porch, it felt like it was leering at her.
The problem at hand was her mom, she reminded herself. Her mom, who was now dead. And it was time to take care of the mess she had left behind.
#
"Hi mom," she had said lamely when her mother had answered on the second ring.
That had only been a week ago, and her mother had sounded her usual cold and detached self. Kate knew her mother didn't have a cellphone, and had been anticipating a long wait until the older woman had made it to her rotary phone in the parlor. Clearly she had either been sitting by the old Bakelite monstrosity, or had had no difficulties getting to it quickly.
"Well, well," the crisp voice, with just a hint of an old-person quake, came back through Kate's phone. "If it isn't the long-lost daughter. Hello, dear, nice of you to take some time out of your important life to talk to your old mother."
"Yes, mom," she responded dutifully. "How's things down there?" She already knew from long experience that asking about her mother's wellbeing would just result in a long litany of indignant complaints.
There was a snort. "The roof is leaking, I have illegals knocking on my door and in my yard every day, and we have a new mayor sending the town to hell in a handbasket," her mother answered promptly. As always, she had little patience for courtesies, preferring to deliver stingers in return. 
"Yes, I saw--," Kate began.
"It's a good thing Jake was here last week, took a look at the roof," mom sniffed, speaking over her. "He's a good boy," she added, leaving the implication hanging plain in the ether between them.
"That's good," Kate said carefully, ignoring it. "You need me to call someone, get a security system for those people bothering you?"
"No no no, dear, don't bother yourself," her mother said dismissively. "Jake said he'd take care of it later this week. He's a dear boy, he knows someone here in town. In fact, I was just waiting for him to call when--"
"Mom, I'm pregnant," Kate said simply, interrupting the accelerating flow of words.
Kate marveled at the stunned silence. She couldn't remember the last time she had managed to shut her mother up. When her mother finally spoke, the petulance was gone and the voice seemed almost raw. "What do you mean, you're pregnant?" she croaked. "I didn't think you and that man were even trying to have a baby?"
Kate frowned. This was not at all the way she had thought this conversation would go. She had not had a good relationship to her mother ever since her teens, maybe ever, that was true, but she had frankly expected a warm, maybe even a happy response. Both of her brothers already had kids of their own, so her mother was already a grandmother four times over, but she had expected some mom-daughter bonding to come out of this announcement.
Certainly not this.
"For the record, what we do or don't do is none of your business," she said hotly. "I certainly don't need your permission to have a baby. And my husband's name is Chris, as I know you know."
"Never mind that," her mom said, no rancor in her voice, and paradoxically Kate felt her own anger dissipate. There was a quality of something that Kate could only characterize as horror in her voice. "But aren't you too old?"
"Clearly not," she huffed. "Forty-three is not old, not in today's day and age. As it happens, I'm due in three months, in early March."
The next her mother said was barely audible, as if she was whispering to herself. "I thought you were past that, that it wouldn't happen."
Kate gritted her teeth, not quite believing her ears. "Well, it's happening, whether you like it or not," she retorted.
Then she made an effort to swallow her anger, to start over. "Look, I know this came unexpected. I know that. But, mom, I really wanted to share this news with you, to talk to you about it. Frankly I thought you'd be happy." She paused, hoping for an interjection. There was none. "Probably I should have come down to Annapolis to tell you in person. That would have been better, I see that now."
"Yes, yes," her mother said absently. Her mind seemed elsewhere. "That's all right, dear."
"You know, I'll fly down to Annapolis, spend some time with you in the house," Kate continued on an impulse, quickly turning to resolve. "I'll come, say, two weeks from now, when this big case blows over. We can talk properly."
"Oh, dear girl," her mom said, her attention back to Kate. Her voice still had that raw and earnest note so unlike her normal tone. "My dear, dear girl. I'm so sorry."
Kate ignored it. Clearly her mom was rattled by the unexpected news and wasn't really thinking straight. That was the only explanation for this cruelty.
"I'll see you then, mom," she said, barging ahead. "You say hi to Jake when you see him, and I'll be back in the house before you know it."
#
It had been quicker than two weeks, Kate reflected as she stared up at the house above her. The rickety wooden stairs rising steeply from the curb up the side of the hill to the house far above looked more forbidding than ever in the damp chill of the night, and she gritted her teeth in anticipation. Normally the outdoor floodlights would have helped visibility, but with her mom gone and the house empty and dark, there was no one to turn them on. At least there was only snow and no ice coating them, or this could have been a dangerous endeavor.
She unlatched the wooden gate and swung it open, then started ascending the stairs. She kept both hands on the railing on either side, taking her time and being careful with each step. It was a good thing she was; near the top, she felt the step shift beneath her foot as she put her weight on it. Luckily, it was only a little loose, and she recovered easily. Still, she'd make a mental note to be careful about going down as well. The fall to the street below would easily be in excess of fifteen feet.
She was puffing a rather undignified amount when she reached the top, and she leaned back on the railing to catch her breath once she was safely on the landing in front of the door. As always, from this vantage point, Annapolis looked like it was studded with twinkling jewels, the soft snowfall once again reminding her of a Christmas postcard. A goddam postcard, she thought idly. All the tourists dream of living here, but if they did, they'd quickly realize even the postcard has the same old problems they have at home.
Dignity restored, she turned from the familiar vista, reaching into her purse for her keys. The small brass one had been on her keyring as long as he could remember, but was rarely used, and she indulged in a moment of nostalgia as she turned it over in her hand and saw the light glinting off its worn surface. Then she stepped up to the door, put the key in, and unlocked the door.
Or at least tried to. The key wouldn't fit.
She tried again, cursing at the Stygian darkness, and fished for her phone in her parka. She took a moment to turn on the flashlight feature, and then tried again in the sudden glory of artificial light.
It still wouldn't fit. What the hell?
She checked the key. Sure enough, it was the right one. It should fit. It had always fit. 
She tried again, and then finally realized that the lock looked brand new. It clearly had been changed. Frowning, she looked closer, and when she saw the fresh metal plate that had been screwed into the wood, realization dawned. Of course! The polite police officer who had called her with the bad news had said that mom had been discovered by a neighbor who--"you may want to sit down, ma'm"--had come to investigate a strong odor. When he had spotted her mom on the floor through the side light windows, he had broken down the door to be sure. The police had clearly had a locksmith come by and repair the damage, and then promptly forgotten to provide her with a key. 
Well, maybe they would have given me the key if I'd dropped by the police station first, she thought. No doubt the police would have sent some helpful officer to let her in. But she had wanted to face the house alone, to get to grip with her new reality before inviting anyone else into it. 
She cursed again, this time loudly, and jumped a little at her own voice. Even if it was a Friday night, and only a few days before Christmas, she was sure she could get a locksmith or, hell, even the police here to let her in within just half an hour or so. But it was cold, and she was miserable, and she was pregnant, and she didn't really love her husband anymore, and her mom was dead, and even if she hadn't really spent any time with her mom for years, she still wasn't sure what kind of a world this was that did not have her mom in it.
She felt the hot tears start, and told herself it was just the frustration. And the pregnancy. And the job. And the unplanned trip. And everything else. She wasn't ready to cry over mom, not yet. Maybe never. Certainly not now. 
Suddenly resolute, she wiped at her eyes angrily, stepped back from the door, and let her phone flashlight sweep over the generous wraparound porch. Screw the locksmith. She was going to let herself in. After all, it was her house now, dammit.
Her mother had amassed an amazing amount of clutter over the years, never once throwing anything away, and her mild hoarding tendencies were plain even just from the look of the wraparound porch. Old lawn furniture was lined up against the wall along both sides of the front door, as if awaiting a firing squad. An assortment of pots of varying size and shape were pushed up against the wall around the entire front of the house, some of them empty, others sporting ghostly wilted plants or dry-caked soil hungrily awaiting irrigation. The wall itself was hung with more empty pots, weird symbols, cracked flowerbeds, torn tapestries, and little statues. Decorative wrought-iron lattices quietly rusted away into nothingness while they wept red-brown rivulets down the purple wooden siding. Kate pushed past a set of decrepit wicker chairs huddling around a capsized garden table, and turned the corner to where she knew her mother had kept her garden tools. Sure enough, tucked away in the dark corner at the end of the porch was a cluttered workbench and a cabinet, plastic doors hanging askew.
But as she approached the bench, two green eyes opened in the inky darkness, freezing her in her tracks. Her hand flew up to her mouth as she drew in a sharp breath, and she took an unintentional step backwards.
Then she realized it was just a cat, huddled together in a ball of fluffy fur by the laundry vent, no doubt absorbing the warmth seeping out from the house. And not just any cat either; looking closer, she saw it was Gus, her mom's old tabby. He must be well past his fifteenth birthday now!
Gus gave no sign of recognizing her, in that perfectly feline supercilious way, but also did not shy away. Instead he stretched languidly and yawned, showing no inclination of moving from his comfortable perch by the laundry room window. She stepped up to the workbench and stroked his scrawny fur with both hands. She had left her gloves in the car, and stealing some of the old cat's body heat was a welcome exchange for some petting. Besides, she liked cats. Gus started to purr imperiously.
Then she felt her baby kick, and, as always, all other thoughts seemed to dim as she turned her attention inward. To the unborn daughter she knew she was carrying. Only three more months now. Of course she'd start to move now, the little stinker, now that the day was winding down and she was getting ready to kick up a storm all night. Kate allowed herself a small smile and stroked her belly.
When she looked up, Gus was gone. She almost wondered if she had imagined his presence. Then again, her mother's house on Market Street had always teemed with cats, as if the place attracted them. While mom had loved cats, over the years Kate had never really seen her interact with them other than to feed them. It almost appeared as if they had wanted to keep their distance to th old widow, but couldn't resist some twisted form of fascination with her that only cats understood.
Kate shrugged and turned her attention to her original task. It only took a minute of rustling around in the dilapidated plastic cabinet to find a something useful: an old crowbar, its original yellow paint mostly eaten up by rust, but with a satisfying weight to it. She returned to the front of the house, hefting the crowbar. She couldn't stop herself from looking around guiltily before stepping up to the side light window next to the door. At this time and in this weather, with the snow muffling all sounds, she didn't think anyone would notice the noise. Besides, as she kept telling herself, this was her house now.
The window was dusty and old, and she wasn't surprised that the neighbor had felt the need to break down the door to check her mother's crumpled form that he could only have glimpsed through the gritty glass. Still, it took a surprising amount of force to break it. Her first tentative taps with the big crowbar had no visible effect, so she had to shift her grip and then swing properly. The silver tinkle of breaking glass was startlingly clear in the night, and she inadvertently held her breath. She forced herself to let it go, used the crowbar to carefully clean out the crystal knives of glass from the frame the way she had seen people do in the movies, and then simply reached in and unlocked the door from the inside.
The door swung open, almost of its own accord. She gulped air again as she stepped inside into the welcome warmth. And just like that, she was inside her childhood home once more.
#
She let her breath out while carefully testing the stale air in the house. The police officer had said that her mother had spent some time dead right in this room before her body was discovered. Sure enough, there was a sweet hint of decay in the air, but it was only a hint, and she allowed herself to breathe normal, knowing it would quickly fade from conscious thought. Instead, she took a moment to look around the foyer, absently placing the rusty crowbar on the wooden bench just inside the door.
All lights were off, but a yellow glow from the streetlights outside was filtering in from the second story windows high above, casting the entire room in rich and otherworldly sepia tones. It was a huge room, spanning the entire front of the house, with a dining room to the left and the entrance to the kitchen to the right. In the center, lined on either side by open wardrobes hung with dusty old coats like slaughterhouse carcasses subtly swinging in an unfelt draft was a corridor topped by a curved arch, a threadbare rug running its length into darkness. 
Kate took another step, pulling the door shut behind her and unbuttoning her coat. In a moment, the dry heat inside the house would perhaps start to feel cloying, but after the frigid night outside, she was luxuriating in the warmth. She reached up and unwound the scarf from around her neck and shook melting snow out of her hair.
That was when a movement out of the corner of her eye made her look up. A narrow staircase was running along one side of the corridor ahead up into darkness, debauching into an open landing high above the foyer. The banister was shrouded in darkness, and for a moment she imagined she saw a dark figure leaning over the parapet to stare at her. Fear gripped her heart in icy talons, but then the shape meowed in a decidedly indignant fashion and nimbly dropped down to the floor on the landing, green eyes flashing in the darkness.
Dammit, another cat.
Still, that meant she was prepared and able to suppress a little shriek when she felt a warm form press itself against her leg, and then her other leg.
She sat down on the little wooden bench and busied herself petting a small army of cats, perhaps six or seven in all, who were all mildly outraged that they had been left without food for several days now. After the headbutting started to become almost aggressive, Kate got laboriously to her feet again and headed off to the kitchen, leaving a trail of her mom's motley collection of lamps alight as she went. All of her trepidation was gone. It's amazing what a few cats can do to ground you, she thought.
A few minutes later she had filled up all of the little dishes around the big kitchen with kibble from a big sack she had found in the pantry, and the room was resounding with the contented munching of a half dozen felines having their long-awaited dinner. Even Gus was there, even if she had no idea how he had made it inside the house, but he seemed tense and kept a wary eye on her even when eating. That was odd, she thought idly while looking through the bare fridge for something to eat. As far as she could remember, Gus had always been a friendly cat.
She found some cheese and cold cuts that didn't seem like they had turned yet, and stood leaning on the kitchen counter while she munched on her food in companionable silence with the cadre of cats and checked her phone. No new messages. Chris was probably on the plane right now, and her two good-for-nothing brothers hadn't responded to her texts about funeral arrangements. Hopefully they would at least make it to Annapolis even if they found some way to have her organize the whole thing and pay for it. She sighed, put down the phone, and swallowed another piece of ham.
And then her eyes fell on the cats again, quietly eating away at their dishes in the kitchen. The police detective on the phone had not mentioned anything about cats in the house, and she could not imagine that they would leave seven healthy cats to fend for themselves in a barren house for days without food. Surely some cat rescue would have been summoned to take these fellows away. That was very odd indeed. Could the cats have hidden from the paramedics and police, distressed by all the ruckus and the death of their owner?
But if the emergency personnel had not seen them, how many days had it really been since these cats had been fed? She had received the call about her mother two days ago, client meetings preventing her from coming down to Annapolis until now, and her mother must have spent several days dead if her body had indeed started to smell so bad that the neighbors would notice. How long can a cat survive without food?
That last thought felt like a bucket of ice water, and she froze, her hand holding another slice of ham that she had been just about to pop into her mouth. Slowly she turned her gaze back to the seven cats contentedly munching at their kibble on the kitchen floor. How had these seemingly peaceful critters survived days, maybe a whole week, without being fed regularly? As she herself knew, the sack of kibble was carefully locked away in the pantry, and there was no other foodstuff available in the house that she had seen. A terrible thought occurred to her, and she fought desperately to ward it off.
Not... the corpse? Surely the detective would have told her if that was the case? Wouldn't he? Her eyes flicked from one cat to another, and Gus took that moment to raise his head and calmly meet her gaze. His stare seemed challenging, almost mocking, his mouth working all the while. Then his tongue came out, pink and sharp.
She felt the bile rising from within like an erupting geyser, and it was a good thing she was intimately familiar with the house or she would have ended up vomiting all over the carpet in the parlor. As it was, she barreled into the downstairs bathroom through the darkened corridor, violently banging the flimsy wooden door against its frame, and threw up all of the cheese and cold cuts as well as the Big Mac meal she had scarfed down at the airport into the cream-colored toilet. It seemed like it took forever to push it all out, one retching cramp followed by another, and when she finally had finished, she clung weakly to the porcelain vessel, all her joints aching like molten brass. Then she grabbed a piece of toilet paper, wiped her mouth, and got laboriously to her feet while clutching her bulging belly with one hand. She could have killed for another cigarette, could even feel the packet of Newports through the fabric of her parka, but something stopped her.
Instead, she ran the water in the sink until she was sure it was cool and clean, rusty old pipes notwithstanding, meanwhile staring into her own haggard face in the bathroom mirror. Its surface was grimy and cracked, but she welcomed the softening effect its patina had on her reflection. Having always had a delicate stomach even before the pregnancy, the morning sickness had never truly gone away for her, and she often had seemed to be teetering on a knife's edge whenever she ate something lately. In other words, it wasn't as if she was a stranger to vomiting. She had probably just overreacted.
But when she turned after having rinsed out her mouth and dabbed cold water on her face, she caught a glimpse of green eyes staring unblinkingly at her from the darkness of the corridor outside the bathroom door. Then they were gone, faded into the night as quickly as they had come.
#
When she felt a little better she ventured back out into the kitchen. The cats were gone, their dishes cleaned out, and she found herself almost missing their presence. There had been comfort in their sleek furry bodies. Now the great emptiness of the big house seemed to weigh on her from everywhere at once. 
She resolutely put the cats out of her mind and began to explore the darkened house. She had no real aim, but slowly walked from room to room turning on lights and carefully looking around. Despite everything, she discovered that it felt good to be back in this house again, even comforting, and this time she didn't ward off the memories when they came crashing in, but welcomed them.
In the parlor, she found her mother's favorite easy chair, covered in handmade quilts and bobbin lace, and angled just so to catch the best view of the old-style television set. The remote sat on the armrest and the chair was covered in cat hair, but she didn't mind, and sank down into it. She sat for a long while, breathing in her mother's subtle smell and thinking about nothing. The calm ticking of the ornate grandfather clock had an almost hypnotizing effect.
Eventually she made it to the second floor, which was warmer and cozier than the ground floor, most of its wooden planks covered in a motley collection of rugs. Hand-woven tapestries adorned most of the dark walls, muffling all sound. She briefly stuck her head into her mother's bedroom. It had a musty smell like cabbage and decay, and with the bed heaped high with blankets, Kate thought for one horrible moment that there was a human form swaddled under the sheets. Of course there was no such thing, but she quickly withdrew all the same. No need to stir up old ghosts. She'd go in there in the light of day.
The other bedrooms looked like they had always looked when she had last seen them on her rare visits home. Her own room had long since been reclaimed, no doubt when she moved out to her uncle's in New York at the age of fifteen, and was now her mother's crafting room. Kate had never really known what of make of that: had her mother wanted to replace her with the huge wooden loom that occupied most of the floor space, or was this a way of actually preserving her memory by just not turning the room back into a guest room? Regardless, there were no memories there. 
In contrast, her mother had kept her brothers' rooms just as they had been when they had left home. She snorted bitterly to herself. Jake's room was covered in bookshelves and the writing desk was heaped with neat stacks of paper covered in minute handwriting. Matt's room, on the other hand, was equally filled with baseball sports equipment and memorabilia. Both rooms had clearly been cleaned regularly, as there was not even a hint of dust anywhere.
She didn't know what caused her to end up in the tower. She was walking aimlessly along the upstairs landing, one hand sliding along the cracked linen weave wallpaper, when she spotted dull light from the street shining off the steps of a narrow staircase set into the corner. On an impulse, not even considering the implication of navigating a dark staircase in her condition, she changed her course towards the corner.
There was a freshly killed rat on the first step, knots of glistening entrails spilling out from a deep gash in its belly. For a moment, she thought she'd throw up again, her bile surging, but then the instinct was averted. Presumably she was all vomited out for the time being. She inspected the rat more closely, turning it over carefully with the tip of her shoe. Sure enough, this rat must have been killed by a cat.
She looked around the landing, instantly feeling silly, but no feline was in sight, not even a pair of green eyes in some dark shadow. She shrugged, pushed the body of the rat to the side, and then started climbing the stair.
There were three more dead rats arranged on the steps before she reached the top, but if anything, they actually strengthened rather than weakened her resolve. Something weird was going in this house, and she'd be damned if she would let her mom get the better of her one last time, dead rats notwithstanding.
When she reached the top, she was momentarily stunned by the nocturnal town vista spreading out before her in all directions. Of course, she'd been up here before, but never as an adult, and never on a night like this. All around her, swaddled in a thick coat of woolly snow, Annapolis seemed to glisten in the pale moonlight. Under it all and throughout the city, inviting rectangles of warm light glowed dully. The snow had stopped with only a chill breeze pulling out wispy lines of lace from the nearby roofs. And beyond the snow, and the light, and the warmth was the dark blot of Spa Creek, hungrily lapping at the beautiful town on the Bay.
When she at last managed to tear her gaze away from the spectacular view, she had to steady herself on the high-backed chair standing in front of the writing desk consuming half of the floor space of the room. On the desk itself were four framed photographs. In front of each frame was a fat candle. A box of matches and a white envelope sat in the middle of the desk in front of the chair.
It looked like four little shrines.
Kate felt her pulse speed up, and leaned groggily on the back of the chair for support. She had never seen this little arrangement before. Then, her equanimity somewhat restored, she bent and looked closer at the first photograph.
It was of her father, a picture she had seen before: a big blond man with an easy smile and carpenter's hands. He was standing behind a chair on a green lawn, leaning on it and basking in the sun, the wooden facade of a house in the background. This house, she knew, more than forty years ago, before she herself had been born.
She frowned. There was something else curled on the desk in front of the frame. She leaned closer, squinting in the low light. It looked like... a lock of hair? Yes, a lock of dark hair, tied together with a neat red ribbon.
Her mother's hair, she realized, and quite a lot of it. Judging by its length, her mother must have cut it off almost at the root.
She was spooked now, and withdrew her hands, not daring to disturb the little scene. Her heart was pounding in her chest and she felt dizzy. Great, she thought blandly. I'm going to pass out in this stupid tower.
But she didn't faint, and after a moment she had gathered back enough courage to look at the other shrines. As she suspected, the second was of her stepfather Ray, the third of her mother's fiancé Walter, and the fourth was actually two photographs: her baby half-brother Lawrence and Donovan, Lawrence's father. All of them dead and gone years ago. And each photograph had a long lock of hair curled in front of it. The pale starlight glinted off the threads of silver woven into the last lock.
At last, her gaze fell on the white envelope. It had a single word written on it in her mother's neat and flowing handwriting: "Kate". She lowered herself into the chair and then opened the flap of the envelope. Inside was a single white card with just a few handwritten words. It said: "Dear Kate. I'm very sorry. I wasn't strong enough. Now you must be strong. Love, Mom."
She sat and watched the eerie display for a long time. Eventually, she fumbled with the matches and lit each of the four candles.
#
She awoke with a start, her hands going to the armrest of the chair and pushing her half to her feet. She coughed and swallowed, then allowed herself to fall back into the soft chair as the energy went out of her limbs. 
Soft? she thought, looking wildly around. The chair was supposed to be wooden, and wasn't supposed to have any armrests either.
After a confused moment, she realized that she was no longer in the tower, but was back in the parlor, sitting in her mother's easy chair. The room was warm and close, the heavy tapestries and thick carpet muffling all sound, with only the brass lamp next to the chair casting a subdued circle of light. It was not unlike being swaddled in a cocoon, especially when she pulled the thick quilt over her knees again, and she felt surprisingly comfortable once the initial confusion had worn off.
She sat for a while, enjoying the warmth and the leisurely parade of her thoughts, contented and luxuriating. All of the unease from earlier in the evening was gone, now replaced by a deep feeling of well-being that she couldn't quite explain. It must be the sleep, she decided. She must somehow have descended half-asleep from the tower room before bedding down in her mom's favorite chair to await Chris's arrival.
That thought perturbed her idle thoughts, and she stirred uneasily. Had something awakened her? She had the distinct memory of a thump, like perhaps a car door closing. Had Chris finally arrived? She checked her phone, the screen bathing her face in its electronic glare. It was 10.05pm, and there was a text from Chris timed 30 minutes ago. She could read it without unlocking her phone, it was that short: "In rental, omw to U."
Relief flooded her, relief and happiness. Thirty minutes ago, that made sense. It must be him out there on the curb. She realized that she was actually glad that he was here, not just relieved not to be alone but actually glad to see him again. Might the uncertain feelings she had entertained for him the last few weeks just be effects of the pregnancy, some unexpected hormonal thing? Maybe.
She got to her feet a little unsteadily, pushing the quilt aside, and then almost fell flat on her face when her foot got tangled in something heavy on the floor. She kept her feet, and looked down with annoyance. It was the rusty crowbar, half-covered in snow and lying in a pool of water on the worn floorboards. That's odd, she thought as she stared down at the rusty old tool. I could have sworn I left that thing by the door.
She shrugged, dismissing the mystery for now, and then hurried to the foyer to look out through the drawn curtains. The street outside was unnaturally bright due to the snow, but she couldn't see anyone on the curb or on the stairs leading up to the house. So maybe she hadn't heard a car door slam after all. 
At that moment, she realized she had to urinate something frightful, and turned on her heel to hurry back to the bathroom. Another little gift from the pregnancy. She had reached a point where she sometimes couldn't go more than thirty minutes without looking for a restroom, and she was constantly getting up in the middle of the night to relieve the pressure. That must have been the reason she had awoken, she thought as she unbuckled her pants and sat down on the toilet seat.
As she washed her hands, she discovered that the feeling of wellbeing from before was still there, and that she was in quite a good mood. Chris was right: what would be the point for them to stay in this old house when they could just find a nice hotel nearby for at least tonight? Maybe they could even get a decent bite to eat. Annapolis was touristy, she remembered, but there were a few local places that would probably still be open. 
She looked into the mirror to check her makeup, and froze.
A large lock of her hair had been cut off, leaving only a short length of hair on the left side of her face.
She felt instantly nauseous, her hands coming up of their own accord to tug at the stump of hair while her heart thumped painfully in her chest. True enough, her fingers confirmed what her eyes had already told her: the hair had been neatly cut off, as if by a pair of scissors.
The next moment she saw the lock of hair on the laminate counter next to sink. It had a red ribbon neatly tied around it. She stared at it in bewilderment, afraid to touch it. Was this a dream? Maybe she was still asleep in her mom's easy chair.
When she returned her gaze to the mirror, she realized with a shock that her mouth was no longer under her control, and that it was curved into a cruel leer, all of her teeth exposed and gleaming. And her eyes... Something was staring back at her through them, something that wasn't her. Something ancient, and cold, and infinitely malicious. There was madness in those eyes, a horrible mad joy.
As she looked, she saw her own mouth writhe, the lips fluttering as if they were being pulled in many different directions at once. Kate wanted to scream, but instead, the lips, now suddenly thin and bloodless and unrecognizable in her own face, formed a single word in the mirror. She couldn't tell whether it was "death" or "birth".
And then the baby kicked. But this was not a kick the way she was used to, but savage, many-jointed, and far too strong. She doubled over, almost fainting, and when she looked back up in the mirror, the horrible face within her face was gone. 
A slow realization dawned on her. The cats, trying to foil her every step. The locks of hair and the shrines. Her mother's dead husbands, fiances, and suitors. The terse letter of apology. Chris...
Chris!
She turned and ran, recklessly slamming the bathroom door, flew down the corridor, and wrenched the exterior door open. A chill wind grabbed her, a small drift of snow falling into the foyer, but she didn't care, didn't even see it, and instead stumbled out onto the porch, squinting at the wind.
He lay on his back at the bottom of the stairs in a pool of blood, his eyes staring sightlessly up into the dark sky above. It had begun to snow again, and a thin dusting of snow had already begun to settle on him. The loose step, bent nails curving wickedly like the teeth of a timberwolf, was half-buried in the snow next to him.
