ONCE upon a time there were a King and a Queen who were very unhappy
because they had no children. Everything else that the heart could wish
for was theirs. They were rich; they lived in a wonderful palace full of
the costliest treasures; their kingdom was at peace, and their people
were prosperous. Yet none of these things contented them, because they
wanted a little child of their own to love and to care for, and though
they had been married several years, no child had come to them.

Every day the King would look at the Queen and say: "Ah, if we only had
a little child," and the Queen would look at the King and sigh, and they
were both very miserable about it. Then they would put on their golden
crowns and sit side by side on their thrones, while lords and ladies
and ambassadors from other lands came to pay them homage, and they had
to smile with their lips for the sake of politeness, but there was no
joy in their hearts. And that is one of the greatest disadvantages of
being a King or a Queen, that one has always to hide one's feelings.

Now it happened one day that the Queen went to her bath, and having
dismissed her ladies, she descended the marble steps into the water
and began idly to play with some wild rose-petals which had fallen into
the water. All of a sudden she heard a croaking voice that said: "O
Queen, be cheerful, for the dearest wish of your heart will be granted
you."

"Who is that?" cried the Queen, a little frightened, for she could see
nobody.

"Look behind you," croaked the voice, "and do not be afraid, for I come
only to bear you good tidings."

So the Queen looked behind her, and there was a great frog who looked at
her with its big round eyes.

Now the Queen was afraid of frogs, because they are cold and clammy, but
she was very polite by nature as well as breeding, so she did not show
her dislike, though she could not help shrinking back a little.

"And do you tell me, Master Frog," said she, "that I shall have the wish
of my heart, and do you know what that wish may be?"

"It is to have a little small child of your own," said the Frog; and the
Queen nodded.

"Very well," the Frog went on, "do you see the green leaves of that
almond tree on the branch by the window?"

"I do," replied the Queen wonderingly.

"Those green leaves will fade," said the Frog, "and the winter winds
will blow them away. Then the branch will be bare, but in spring-time,
before the leaves come again, it will be covered with pink blossom, and
that blossom you shall show to a baby lying at your breast."

The Queen gave a cry of joy. A ray of sunlight came through the trees,
dazzling her eyes so that she had to close them for a moment. When she
opened them again the frog had gone, and nothing was to be seen but the
dainty rose-petals floating on the surface of the water.


THOSE were wonderful tidings to be spoken by a frog who came no one knew
whence and went no one knew whither. But the Queen believed that the
prophecy would prove true, and she was right, for when the Spring time
came again and the almond blossom was pink upon the bough, she gave
birth to a little daughter who was so beautiful that nobody had ever
seen her like.

Now what joy there was in the hearts of everybody in the palace! The
King was so excited that he went into council in his dressing-gown
instead of his royal robe, and he did not care a bit when his courtiers
smiled. There was coming and going in all the halls and corridors.
Couriers on swift horses were sent out to bear the glad news to the most
distant parts of the kingdom. All the bells in the churches were rung;
flags were put out in the houses and streamers were hung across the
roadways. Then the cannons were fired, bang, bang, bang, to tell the
people that everybody was to have a holiday, so that all, from the
highest to the lowest, might rejoice in their Queen's happiness.

"Never was there such a beautiful child," said the King, looking down at
his little daughter as she lay in her mother's arms. He wanted very much
to nurse her, but this could not be allowed, because men are so clumsy
with babies.

"What shall her name be?" said the King. And he suggested all the
grandest names he could call to mind, for he thought that such a
wonderful child must certainly have a name to suit. But the Queen would
have none of them.

"She shall be called Briar-Rose," said the Queen; and so it was
arranged.

Outside the cathedral the roads were crowded with people waiting to see
the guests come and go. The carriages extended for nearly a mile, and as
they drove away, headed by the royal coach, in which the Queen sat with
the Princess Briar-Rose in her arms, the spectators took off their hats
and shouted and cheered. Some of the little boys perched themselves on
the branches of trees and the lamp-posts in order to get a better view,
and I have been told that there was one poor woman who saw nothing at
all, because her boy tried to climb up to an inn sign, where he dangled
in such a dangerous position that his poor old mother had to stand with
her back to the procession, holding on to his legs in a terrible state
of anxiety lest he should fall.

At the palace, a magnificent feast had been prepared.

Now it was the custom in those days, when a King's child was christened,
for all the fairies in the country to be invited to the christening
feast. Each fairy was bound to bring a gift, so of course it stood to
reason that the royal child would have everything that the heart could
possibly desire.

There were thirteen fairies in the King's realm, but one of them lived
in a lonely place on the outskirts of the kingdom. There, for the last
fifty years, she had shut herself up in a ruined tower with only a black
cat to keep her company, and as she kept herself to herself, everybody
had forgotten her very existence. The result was that she was not
invited to the christening feast, and though she had nobody but herself
to blame for this, she was very angry about it. The truth of the matter
is that she was always a miserable, sour creature, with no love or
kindness in her heart, and nobody missed her because she had never given
anybody any reason to care for her.

Well, the guests assembled in the banqueting hall of the palace and the
feast began.

Each dish was brought in by the servants in a kind of procession, headed
by the Master-Cook, looking as grand and solemn as an archbishop, for he
was a grave and dignified person, and of course he had a great
responsibility. The guests were served by little page-boys of noble
birth, dressed in the liveries of their masters, and these pages handed
the dishes and the wines most politely on their bended knees as they had
been taught to do.

So the guests enjoyed themselves, and the fiddlers played, and the King
laughed at everything everybody said, because he was in a mighty good
humour, and the bright afternoon sun, shining through the western
windows, lighted up the rich hangings on the walls, and flashed upon the
jewels on fair ladies' fingers, and fell upon the marble pavement in a
pool of gold.

And then, you know, when the merriment was at its height, something
happened! There was a sudden cry, and a harsh voice, like the croaking
of a raven, sounded through the room.

"Be merry, my lords and ladies," cried the voice. "Laugh while you may,
but remember that tears may follow laughter."

A hush fell upon all the brilliant assembly. The Queen turned pale and
shuddered. The King rose hurriedly from his place, and he and all the
guests turned to look at the strange figure that had suddenly appeared
in the doorway.

They saw an old woman bent almost double with age, her grey head with
matted hair sunk deep between her shoulders. Her face was white and
twisted with anger, and her green eyes flashed spitefully.

Slowly she advanced towards the dais, and stretching out her arm,
pointed her finger at the gold plates and the gold caskets set before
the fairy godmothers. "There's one," said she, with a harsh laugh,
"there's two, there's twelve! Did you not know, O King, that there were
thirteen wise women in your kingdom, and the thirteenth the wisest and
most powerful of all? Where, then, is the plate and the casket set for
me?"

The King began to make excuses, imploring the angry old fairy to forgive
him for his neglect, and begging her to sit down and join them in their
festivities. "For," said he, "I am sure you are very welcome."

"Is it so, indeed?" said the thirteenth fairy. "I am not too late, then,
though the feast is all but done. I shall eat off silver while my
sisters eat off gold, and there is no curiously-shaped casket for me. No
matter, I am content, because I am in time, and I shall dower the
Princess with the gift which I have brought for her!" And here the
spiteful creature uttered another of her sneering laughs, which made the
blood of all the guests run cold.

By dint of much coaxing the King at last managed to persuade her to sit
down, and the feast proceeded. But a chill had been cast over the
assembly, and nothing was quite the same as it had been before. The old
crone muttered and mouthed over her food, now and again smiling to
herself as though she were cherishing some secret and evil triumph. The
other fairies cast anxious glances at her, for they feared her malice,
and the youngest fairy of all, who happened to be seated at the end of
the table, presently rose up quietly from her place and, stealing away,
hid herself behind the arras. And nobody saw her go, nor did a single
person remark upon her absence.

AND now came the time for the most important part of the ceremony, when
the fairy godmothers should declare their gifts to the royal child. All
this time the little Princess Briar-Rose had been quietly sleeping in
her cradle in the nursery, watched over by an old servant who had tended
her mother as a child. Now the King gave orders for the baby to be
brought into the banqueting hall. The guests ceased their laughter and
talk, and the musicians laid by their instruments.

So the sleeping child was brought and placed in her mother's arms. How
tenderly she clasped the baby to her breast, bending over it as though
to shield it from all harm. So sweet a sight should have touched the
hardest heart, and indeed there was only one person in the room who
remained unmoved, and that was the spiteful and jealous fairy, who
looked up and bared her yellow teeth in a sneering grin.

"Queen," said she, "your face is pale and your lips tremble. What is it
that you fear on this day of the giving of gifts?"

But the Queen shuddered and was silent.

Then a fairy rose in her place and said--

"I will begin. My gift to the Princess Briar-Rose is the gift of Beauty.
She shall have eyes like stars, and hair as bright as the sunshine of
the spring day on which she was born, and cheeks as fresh and fair as
the petals of the flower from which she takes her name. None shall
surpass her in loveliness."

Then the second fairy rose in her turn and said: "After Beauty, Wit. The
Princess shall be cleverer than any ordinary mortal could ever hope to
be."

"I give her Virtue," said the third. And the Queen nodded her head and
smiled, for though she esteemed beauty and cleverness, she knew that
neither was of any worth without goodness of heart.

[Illustration]

So all the fairies in turn named the gift which they had brought for
Briar-Rose. The fourth said that whatever the Princess put her hand to,
she should do with the most exquisite grace; the fifth, that she should
sing like a nightingale; the sixth that she should dance as lightly as
a fairy, and so on until she had nearly all the virtues and
accomplishments which even a King might desire for his daughter. But as
yet, the spiteful old fairy had not said a word.

[Illustration]

At last she rose and cast an evil glance round.

"Have you all finished?" said she. "Hear, then, my wish. On the day when
she reaches her fifteenth birthday, the Princess shall prick her finger
with the spindle of a spinning-wheel, and shall immediately die!"

This terrible prophecy made the whole company shudder. The Queen gave a
cry and hugged the sleeping baby still closer to her breast.

"No, no! Have pity!" she cried. "Call down your dreadful fate on my head
if you will, but do not harm this innocent child."

At this mournful appeal there was hardly one of the guests who could
keep from tears, but the old crone only mumbled to herself as though she
were uttering a spell. Then the King leapt to his feet, his hand at the
jewelled hilt of the dagger that hung at his girdle. In another moment
he might have stretched the wicked creature lifeless at his feet, but
before he could draw the weapon from its sheath, another voice arrested
him.

"Stay your hand, O King, lest even worse befall. No mortal may strike at
a fairy and go unpunished. And, for the rest, take comfort, for your
daughter shall not die!"

Then the twelfth fairy stepped out from behind the arras where she had
been hidden. "My gift is still to come," she continued. "As far as I
can, I will undo the mischief which my sister has done. It is true that
I have not the power to prevent altogether what she has decreed. The
Princess shall, indeed, prick her finger with the spindle of the
spinning-wheel on the day when she attains her fifteenth year; but
instead of dying she shall fall into a deep sleep; and this sleep shall
last for a hundred years, and when that time is past, a King's son shall
come to waken her."